OK, welcome back.
Now in this next lesson, we're going to continue from where we left off, but now we're really going
to ramp it up and get it get even fancier.
So if you'll recall from the text manipulation lessons that we did previously, one of the last things
we did in there was passing a phone number.
We were able to actually parse out the individual components or parts of the phone number, and we're
going to do that again here.
But with regular expressions now, and we're just about ready to be able to do this.
So carrying on from where we left off, we need to learn about a couple other little classes and approaches
before we can pass out the parts that we want from a phone number string.
And so I'm going to introduce you to those additional classes now.
The first class that you need to know about is called pattern pattern.
And so I just went to a new line and I typed out pattern here.
And the ADP is looking for any classes that come with Java.
That might be the class that I'm referring to.
And it happens to be this first one here under the package Java date you tilde rejects for regular expressions.
So that's the pattern, that's the pattern that I want.
And so if you type that in and you're getting this little sort of pop up here, you can either click
on that or hit return to tell the ADP that that is the class that you want.
And now what just happened is that the ADP just imported this class, if you remember about importing.
It's basically where you're telling Java what package and you can think of the package kind of like
a neighborhood or a zip code.
Sort of.
You're telling Java what package you want to get this pattern class from.
So that you can refer to it by its short name and then you won't have to have all of this on there.
If I did not import this, I could still use it, but then I'd have to have the whole Java you tilde
rig dot pattern every time I wanted to refer to the pattern class, and that would get a little unwieldy.
So we import it so that we can basically have a shorthand there.
OK.
So we're going to create a variable that will hold an object of type pattern, and this pattern object
is going to represent a regular expression.
OK, so that's what that means.
It's a it's a regular expression really is a pattern.
OK.
So that's what we're calling it here as a pattern.
And so now there's a couple of ways that you could consider.
Well, there's a few ways you could decide to name this variable in a lot of books and things.
And online, you'll often see people just refer to the variable that holds the pattern as patty for
short and in a lot of the cases.
I will even do that too.
If for some reason you were going to write some code or a class where you're going to use multiple regular
expressions, all in the same class.
You won't want to do this.
And I also wouldn't recommend calling each one like Pat one Pat to pat three, because that's not very
meaningful either.
In that case, you'd probably want to name the pattern for whatever it's a pattern of.
So in this particular case, it's a pattern for phone numbers.
So I might call it something like phone pat or something like that.
Now, since this will be the only expression I'm going to use in this particular class at this time,
I'm going to save myself a little bit of typing and just go with Pat for now.
All right.
And then equals.
Now here you're going to see a no pun intended pattern that you haven't seen before.
Normally, when we create a new instance of a class, we've been using the new operator and then we
say the the class that we're talking about.
But when it comes to creating a regular expression pattern in Java, that is actually not the approach
that we use.
And the reason there's a couple of reasons for this, but one is that the constructor that gets called
when we do new for the pattern class is private or protected.
I haven't gone and look at it, but it's not accessible by us, and that's not the way that the creators
of that class intended for us to instantiate it.
Instead, what we need to do is we call pattern here and there's a static method on pattern class called
compile.
And this is actually the method that we need to call to create a pattern.
So we're going to call, compile and then we can pass in a regular expression string.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come up here to my rig.
Here and I'm going to select all of this now.
I prefer to do this in a little bit fancier way, I guess.
I'm going to hold down on the option or alt key and then hit the up arrow and on windows, it's controlled
W. And I'm going to do that a few times.
And as you see, each time I do that, I'm selecting more and more and more of that string, and I'm
going to grab it all until I get the quotation marks as well.
OK, so now I've selected that whole string.
Now, of course, I could have just used the mouse and or the cursor and just selected all of that as
well.
But if I weren't explaining this to you, this would have been the quicker, easier thing for me to
do.
Most likely.
All right.
And and now what I want to do is I'm going to extract this string out into its own variable.
And you've seen me do this before.
I'm going to do a on Mac option command V for variable or on Windows or what is a control alt v.
And the ID has already proposed a name for this variable of X, and that's that's fine.
And again, if I were writing a program where I was going to have multiple regular expressions within
the same class, I wouldn't call this Rag X.
I'd probably call it phone number X or, you know, something like that.
But in this case, I'm fine.
So I'm going to accept the proposed variable name here by hitting return.
All right.
And now you see what that did is it created a new line where it created an instance of a string called
Redbacks that brought that string literal up here.
And then it replaced the string literal that I had inside of the matches method with the variable.
OK, so this gets assigned to Rig X and then Rig X is used here and now I can use it again down here,
which is the whole point right there, right?
And then I'll close that.
OK.
So what we're doing now, I mentioned briefly, I think that the syntax and format of a regular expression
really is a language.
It really is.
It's a programming language in and of itself.
So you're you're you're pretty much truly writing a program inside of your program.
You're writing one program that is very specific to how to recognize patterns of text using the regex
language, if you will, inside of Java.
In this particular case.
And so this is a language and as such, it actually can be compiled.
And in fact, it needs to be compiled.
And so that's what this that's what this this method is doing now.
I haven't explained a whole lot about compiling code.
So let me just briefly state this.
So even when we're writing Java here and we run this program, the computer isn't literally reading
each of these words and everything and running it all in real time.
This language of Java is intended to be very easy to read by humans, but not so easy to read for a
computer.
And so for a computer to be able to run this program, there's an intermediate step and I'm greatly
oversimplifying here, but there's an intermediate step in which the computer translates this Java code,
which is roughly kind of English, right?
It translates this into what is called byte code and the Byte Code.
Or you may have heard sometimes of the fact that computers actually execute machine code, if you will.
So basically, there's a system that is translating this mostly English Java code that humans can read
into bite code, which is like a machine code and zeros and ones effectively that the computer actually
can execute.
OK.
Similarly, regular expressions like this thing, which maybe isn't so human readable, actually get
compiled as well into another form that is more efficient for the computer to be able to do something
with.
And so this method here is actually doing that translation.
OK.
And keep this in mind, because that means that compiling a regular expression and using it is considered
to be somewhat of an expensive operation in computer terms.
Now, it only takes probably milliseconds to do, but it's not something you'd want to do overly frequently
if you could avoid it.
So, for example, if we had a loop of code that was running over and over and over again and we were
going to, I don't know, test for phone numbers, lots of phone numbers or something, we wouldn't
want to be calling pattern decompile to use the exact same regular expression over and over and over
again.
That would be a very expensive thing to do.
And it would cause our program to run considerably slower than it needed to.
So just keep that in mind, compilation and compiling of things is kind of an expensive operation.
All right.
So we've got our pattern.
Now, so basically, we've just told the computer translate this into a more efficient form that you
can actually use the you the computer.
All right.
And then the other thing we need is a matter, and the matter is the actual engine that does the matching
essentially right.
And so we will refer to the match your class in 8K HDR.
And again, the HD gives us some suggestions of what we may be talking about here.
And indeed, the first one that I have on my list now, your list may be different, by the way, so
be careful to to look out for the matter that falls under the package of Java date you.
That Rig X regex is your is the key thing you want to look out for, and once you see that you can select
it.
All right, and now you'll want to name a variable for this as well.
And commonly and a lot of tutorials and things you'll see, people often just refer to it as Mat.
And again, if you were going to have multiples of these in one class, which I wouldn't normally recommend,
but if you were, then you'd want to name these something a little more meaningful and specific to whatever
kinds of patterns they are meant to be matching.
OK, now to create the match, or we don't do match or decompile or something like that.
Instead, we create a matter from the pattern that we just created.
So a pattern gives birth to a match or, if you will?
OK.
And so the way we do that is to refer to our variable patty dot.
And then it has a method on it called matcher.
This guy here.
And the input that it takes now is the text string that we want to inspect or check and see, does it
match a pattern, right?
So in that case, that text would be this text right here.
And so just as we did before, we can go ahead and extract out this string.
So you just saw me kind of select most of it just now, but I'm going to select the quotation marks
as well, and I'm going to do that the same way I did before with option up arrow or controlled W..
And then again, I'm going to do option command v or control alt v.
Now here the idea is suggesting just s as the name, and I don't like that name.
It's just not descriptive enough at all.
And so I'm going to just call this phone number one word no space with a capital in and a lowercase
p, right?
And then I'm going to hit return, and now I can come down here, put my cursor here and refer to phone
number.
And look, I just only typed and it's suggesting the idea suggesting phone number.
Is that the variable you want?
Yes, it is.
And so I will hit return to get that, and then I will close out this statement with the semicolon.
OK, so now we've just created a matcher that can match that can basically asked the regular expression
engine, Does this phone number match this pattern?
OK.
So this is kind of a more formal way of doing what we were doing earlier by calling phone number matches
right.
This is doing a lot of basically the same thing, except now we need a little more power than what we
can get out of doing this kind of like one-liner thing.
We need a few more lines of code now.
And that's why we're we're breaking out this the the big guns, as some as some might say.
All right.
So now we've got a pattern and we've got to match her now.
Make a new line here, and maybe I'll make another line here as well.
And I'm on also close that one note to give us a little more space here.
All right.
Now we can actually use these things.
OK, so you might first see people test to see if there actually is a match because what we really want
to do is we want to where we're headed with this is we're going to extract out these parts, OK?
You know, the these parts.
But before we can assume that there's anything there to extract, we need to first make sure that this
even matches, which is what we were getting when we were calling this method earlier, right?
We need to just check to see, does this even match?
Because if there's no match there and then we try to extract out the parts, there won't be anything
to extract and then the whole program would blow up.
So the typical way that you'll see people do that in this, we're going to jump ahead a little bit in
our lessons and learn a little bit about conditionals, but not much.
So what you'll normally see people do is use the if statement here to ask the computer, Hey, test
for if something is true or not, OK?
And if it is, then you can proceed and do some things right.
So we're going to use an if statement here and then parentheses.
This space here is optional, but I like it.
So that's why I have that space there and we're going to ask the matter, Matt.
That matches we're going to call the matches method here.
So what we're doing is we're asking the match or Hey, is there a match between this phone number and
this expression?
It's the same thing we were doing here.
In fact, you know, let me let me put a little space in here just to just to kind of call out the,
you know, this is what we were doing before, right?
So this is a slightly more formal way of doing of doing the same thing here, OK?
But this if statement, well, let me let's finish this and then I'll come back and explain this a little
bit more.
All right.
So then I'm going to put a left curly brace here and then hit return.
And the I.D. automatically gives me a closing curly brace and then puts the cursor right in the middle.
Much the same as when we create a class.
OK, so we're about to put a block of code.
And so basically what we're saying here is we're telling the computer, Hey, I want you to inquire
as to whether or not this string matches this regular expression here.
And if it is true that the string matches the expression, execute whatever code I put in between these
curly braces and if there is no match, skip whatever code I put in here and just go on with the rest
of the program, OK?
And that way, we protect ourselves from the possibility that there was no match.
And therefore, when we start trying to extract out these parts, the program doesn't blow up.
OK?
We're also triggering the expression engine.
I'm sorry, the regular expression engine to actually go ahead and do its matching right to actually
execute its its its own program, which is the expression itself by calling the stop matches here.
All right.
So assuming that there was a match, there will now be some things that we can hopefully extract out
of this string.
And so to get to those.
So let's let's assume that there will be matches there and that we want to print out whatever those
matches may be.
OK now.
So the way we want to actually capture this, this data, these these parts right, we're trying to
get the area code, things like the area code, the I call it the exchange and the what is this called
the line number, right?
The way we do this is actually by utilizing these parentheses here.
So when we enclose parts of our regular expression in parentheses, not only are we grouping things
up so that we can then do things like specify how many times we want something to be matched or whatever,
as we did here, but also these parentheses by default form what are called captcha groups.
And what that means is that whatever part of our input string, which is this guy here that matches
with whatever was in these parentheses that will be remembered.
And we can reference those later.
OK.
So in this case, so far, we've got one captured group there.
Let's see.
We've got another capture group here.
OK, so we've got two capture groups at the moment.
OK.
So we can actually ask the matter to give us whatever matched in those two capture groups.
If this doesn't quite make sense.
Stick with me.
Here you'll I think you'll start to see where we're going with this.
So if we want to grab whatever matched inside of these parentheses, what we can do is we can.
We'll do it.
So you t get a print line here and then we can call a special method on the matcher class.
So we'll refer to our match or our M-80 object here.
And there is a method called group that takes a number.
Now this number will be the index of the group.
In this particular case, we have to capture groups designated by these parentheses.
So we've got this first set of parentheses here and whatever is in the middle of it.
OK.
And then we've got another set of parentheses here.
And whatever is in the middle of that.
So whatever parts of this input string align with these parentheses, that's what will be in the captured
group.
So we have to capture groups so far because we have two sets of opening and closing parentheses.
And therefore, we have two effective groups that we can refer to.
We actually have three, though, and I'll show you what the what the third one, which is really the
first one would be.
So anyway, if we wanted to see what what was matched in this first capture group, that would be capture
group one.
Now I've no, I've said earlier that usually in a lot of these computer things, things will start with
zero and there is a group zero and we'll look at what that is in just a moment.
But this capture group here would be one.
So if I put a one right here, we will see whatever we got out of that.
And then I'm going to duplicate this line to grab the second capture group as well.
And to do that, I'm just going to do a Command D or control D for Windows and Linux, and then I'm
going to change this one to a two just like that.
All right.
And now let's go ahead and run this, in fact.
Yeah, I'll let that stay there, too.
All right.
So let's run this now and see what we get.
Hopefully, it doesn't blow up.
OK, cool.
So we got true null and three, three three, period.
Let's see if that makes any sense to us.
All right.
So let's look back here.
What was this first capture group, even for this first one was to get and I don't know why I was blanking
on what this is called.
I have no idea why I couldn't think of it, but that's the country code, actually, which is why in
North America, it's always one, because that is how you call to North America from the world one.
OK.
So that would be the country code there.
And in our example here, we don't have a country code.
And so we got back a null.
So that actually seems appropriate.
OK, then the next CAPTCHA group we have refers to.
Now here's the thing we.
Well, it refers to the three digits, but if you look at our example here, well, we have two sets
of three digit numbers, right?
So which one?
Now what we got back appears to be the second set of three digit numbers.
What happened to the first set, though?
How come we didn't get that?
So what happened is that we decided earlier in the previous lessons to not have to duplicate this pattern
twice.
Right?
And that's why we have this quantifier here where we were saying we could specify the this pattern of
three digits between one and two times, right?
And in this example, here we actually have it two times.
However, when you use quantifiably, along with captcha groups and again, a CAPTCHA group is really
just the use of these parentheses here.
You only have access to the last thing that matched and that would be three three three.
So it's actually throwing away the two three two.
Now, if we want to get around that, we actually have to stop using the quantifier went.
Where kind of sucks a little bit.
So our regular expression is going to get a little longer again so that we can actually get to all of
the parts, right?
So I'm going to copy all of this.
Be careful if you're following along not to grab the wrong bits.
So really, in fact?
Well, I'm just going to grab everything, including the parentheses themselves.
All right, then I will go to the end of that parentheses and I will paste again.
So now we have three captcha groups.
Right.
We've got our just highlight the parentheses here one.
And you can see this other parentheses highlighted as well.
One two.
And three right there.
OK.
So now let's run this again and see what we what we get.
You know what?
While we're at it, let's go ahead and add in that country code as well.
So we'll do a we'll do a one there.
OK, and then we'll run this.
All right.
So now we get a one period and a two, three, two period, so that's looking a little better, right?
One period to three, two period.
Now I'm not a big fan of having these periods here, and we're going to we're going to take care of
those a little bit later, but looks like we're kind of on the right path, right?
And now we do have this third capture group now.
So let's duplicate this last line and grab that third capture group again.
So I'm going to do a command on on what my line 17 just duplicate that line.
I just put the cursor anywhere on this line, by the way, I'm going to, in fact, let me just do that
again for you.
So my cursor could be anywhere on line.
17 doesn't matter where.
And I can just do a command or control D to duplicate that line.
Then I'll put my cursor right here and change that to two or three, and then we'll run this again.
OK, well, look what we have now.
One, nine, two, three, two and then three, three three.
So it looks like we're pretty much getting everything except that we're just getting these extra bits.
And the reason we're getting these extra bits is because they are inside of the capture group, right?
So yeah, that's that's why we're getting those.
So I'll tell you what, let's go ahead and wrap up here and just give you a quick break and we'll jump
back in and figure out how to clean up these periods and see what else we can do with these captured
groups because there's a few other really cool things we can get into.
So I'll see you in the next one.